Add a chapter on useful `@rustbot` commands (#874)
rust-lang/rustc-dev-guide: src/rustbot.md

# Mastering @rustbot

`@rustbot` (also known as `triagebot`) is a utility robot that is mostly used to
allow any contributor to achieve certain tasks that would normally require GitHub
membership to the `rust-lang` organization. Its most interesting features for
contributors to `rustc` are isssue claiming and relabeling.

## Issue claiming

`@rustbot` exposes a command that allows anyone to assign an issue to themselves.
If you see an issue you want to work on, you can send the following message as a
comment on the issue at hand:

    @rustbot claim

If you are a member of the `rust-lang` organization, `@rustbot` will assign the
issue to you. Otherwise, `@rustbot` will assign itself as a placeholder and edit

> the top comment to reflect the fact that the issue is now assigned to you.

Reviewer: I don't think this is true anymore; I think rustbot will assign you regardless of whether you're part of the org. For example, I'm not a member of rust-lang, but rustbot assigns me directly. Cc @Mark-Simulacrum - am I understanding it correctly?

Reviewer 2: I've definitely seen it assign itself before, not the person claiming. Not sure why it assigns you but not others though.

Reviewer: Maybe it likes me ;)

I haven't seen it do that in a while though.

Reviewer: I just looked and I've seen `@rustbot claim` assign issues to `@lcnr`, who is not a GitHub org member, and `@jumbatm`, who is likewise not an org member. It definitely used to assign itself, but the most recent issue `rustbot` is assigned to was opened July 31.

Reviewer 2: (how is lcnr not an org member? they've implemented like half of min_const_generics 😆 )

Author: They are now :P
Btw they were member or the Prioritization WG which is "enough" to be part or the GitHub org

Reviewer 3: IIRC, triagebot will assign you directly if you either are an org member or commented on the issue/PR where the assignment happens. But I would consider this an implementation detail - does it not suffice to say that sometimes you will be assigned directly and sometimes indirectly?

Author: Thanks for the clarification! I think you’re right, just saying that you might be assigned indirectly is the best way of presenting things indeed

If you want to unassign from an issue, `@rustbot` has a different command:

    @rustbot release-assignment

## Issue relabeling

Changing labels for an issue or PR is also normally reserved to members of the

> organization. However, `@rustdoc` allows you to relabel an issue yourself, only

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
organization. However, `@rustbot` allows you to relabel an issue yourself, only
```

with a few restrictions. This is mostly useful in two cases:

**Helping with issue triage**: Rust's issue tracker has more than 5,000 open
issues at the time of this writing, so labels are the most powerful tool that we

> have to keep it as tidy as possible. You may not spend hours in the issue tracker
> to triage issues, but if you open an issue, you should feel free to label it if

Reviewer 2: 'may not' means "you can't", but I think you mean "you shouldn't".
```suggestion
have to keep it as tidy as possible. You don't need to spend hours in the issue tracker
to triage issues, but if you open an issue, you should feel free to label it if
```

you are comfortable with doing it yourself.

**Updating the status of a PR**: we use "status labels" to reflect the status of
PRs. For example, if your PR has merge conflicts, it will automatically be assigned
the `S-waiting-on-author`, and reviewers might not review it until you rebase your

> PR. Once you did rebase your branch, you should change the labels yourself to remove

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
PR. Once you do rebase your branch, you should change the labels yourself to remove
```

    @rustbot claim

This will tell `@rustbot` to assign the issue to you if it has no assignee yet.

> Note that because of some GitHub restrictions, you may be assigned indireclty,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that because of some GitHub restrictions, you may be assigned indirectly,
```

> **Updating the status of a PR**: we use "status labels" to reflect the status of

Reviewer: It's fine either way, but do you want to do this?

```suggestion
**Updating the status of a PR**: We use "status labels" to reflect the status of
```
